---
title: "FairRIC: Real-time Fair Allocation in O-RAN with Shared Computing"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-01-01-fairric
# excerpt: ''
date: 2025-05-19
venue: 'IEEE INFOCOM'
authors: 'Fatih Aslan, Jose A. Ayala-Romero, Andres Garcia-Saavedra, Xavier Costa-Perez, and George Iosifidis'
# award: 'Best Student Paper Award'
# paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/11044643'
# citation: 'Aslan, F., Kozat, S.S. Handling irregularly sampled signals with gated temporal convolutional networks. SIViP (2022). https://doi.org/10.1007/s11760-022-02292-2'
---

Read [here.](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/11044643)

### Abstract
> The deployment of O-RAN systems on general-purpose computing platforms represents a significant paradigm shift, promising remarkable performance improvements. However, these architectures may potentially increase both the capital and operational expenses of the network. The processor pooling concept is a promising solution to address this problem, consisting of a set of processing units (PUs) in the O-Cloud shared by several virtualized BSs (vBSs). Nevertheless, this strategy requires sophisticated resource assignment mechanisms to provide the expected gains in terms of cost and reliability. This paper proposes a novel online learning framework that assigns computing resources to vBSs in real-time (e.g., every TTI), thus handling the burstiness of real traffic loads. Our algorithm relies on online convex optimization (OCO) theory, extending state-of-the-art approaches in long-term fairness and constrained optimization and allowing discrete decisions. Our method offers an intrinsic closed-form iteration, speeding up the computation process and consequently allowing real-time operation. Moreover, our solution has guarantees in terms of fairness among the vBSs while adhering to long-term energy constraints over the entire operation horizon. We validate our theoretical findings via simulation and evaluate experimentally the algorithms in an O-RAN platform.

Recommended citation: *F. Aslan, J. A. Ayala-Romero, A. Garcia-Saavedra, X. Costa-Perez and G. Iosifidis, "FairRIC: Real-Time Fair Allocation in O-RAN with Shared Computing," IEEE INFOCOM 2025 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications, London, United Kingdom, 2025, pp. 1-10, doi: 10.1109/INFOCOM55648.2025.11044643.*